README.adoc, before:

= Icinga Config
Jordan Williams <jordan@jwillikers.com>
:experimental:
:icons: font
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:Icinga: https://icinga.com/[Icinga]

My configuration for the {Icinga} monitoring tool.

// todo http://nagios.manubulon.com/index_snmp.html

== Usage

This repository contains the configuration files for {Icinga}.
The configuration is meant to be used with the containers from the https://github.com/jwillikers/home-lab-helm[Home Lab Helm] repository.

. Create a `Projects` directory in the current user's home directory.
+
[,sh]
----
mkdir --parents ~/Projects
----

. Clone this repository under `~/Projects`.
+
[,sh]
----
git -C ~/Projects clone git@github.com:jwillikers/icinga-config.git
----

. For each template file in the `etc/icinga2/constants.d` directory, copy it to the same directory without the `.template` extension.
+
Bash::
+
[,sh]
----
for host_template in etc/icinga2/constants.d/*.conf.template; do cp --no-clobber -- "$host_template" etc/icinga2/constants.d/$(basename -- "$host_template" ".template"); done
----

fish::
+
[,sh]
----
for host_template in etc/icinga2/constants.d/*.conf.template; cp --no-clobber -- "$host_template" etc/icinga2/constants.d/(basename -- "$host_template" ".template"); end
----

Nushell::
+
[,sh]
----
for host_template in (glob "etc/icinga2/constants.d/*.conf.template") { cp --no-clobber $host_template $"($host_template | path parse | reject extension | path join)" }
----

. Fill in any missing credentials in the files in the `constants.d` directory, such as SNMPv3 authentication and encryption keys.

.. Generate the `IcingaDbWebApiPassword` constant with the following command.
+
[,sh]
----
echo "const IcingaDbWebApiPassword = \"$(openssl rand -base64 30)\"" > etc/icinga2/constants.d/icingadb-web-api-user-password.conf
----

.. Use the following command to create the `TicketSalt` variable.
+
[,sh]
----
echo "const TicketSalt = \"$(openssl rand -base64 30)\"" > etc/icinga2/constants.d/ticket-salt.conf
----

. Then mount the provided `etc/` directory inside the Icinga2 server container at `/data/etc`.

=== Features

To enable a feature, create a relative symlink in the `features-enabled` subdirectory that points to the feature configuration file in the `features-available` subdirectory.
The following command demonstrates this by enabling the `icingadb` feature.

[,sh]
----
ln --relative --symbolic etc/icinga2/features-available/icingadb.conf etc/icinga2/features-enabled/icingadb.conf
----

== Validate

Use the following Podman command to validate the Icinga configuration.

[,sh]
----
podman run \
  --env ICINGA_MASTER=1 \
  --hostname icinga.jwillikers.io \
  --interactive \
  --rm \
  --tty \
  --volume icinga-data:/data:Z \
  --volume ~/Projects/icinga-config/etc/icinga2:/data/etc/icinga2:ro,Z \
  docker.io/icinga/icinga2:latest \
  icinga2 daemon --validate
----

== Tips & Tricks

List Available Network Interfaces::
+
[,sh]
----
podman run \
  --interactive \
  --entrypoint [] \
  --rm \
  --tty \
  quay.io/jwillikers/icinga-manubulon:latest \
    /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_interfaces -j MD5 --user 'username' -J 'authPassphrase' -h 10.1.0.5
----

Convert MIB to OID::
+
[,sh]
----
snmptranslate -On NET-SNMP-EXTEND-MIB::nsExtendOutput1Line.\"getenforce\"
.1.3.6.1.4.1.8072.1.3.2.3.1.1.10.103.101.116.101.110.102.111.114.99.101
----

== References

* https://icinga.com/docs/icinga-2/latest/doc/04-configuration/[Icinga 2 Documentation: Configuration]
* https://github.com/Icinga/docker-icinga2[Icinga 2 - Docker image]
* https://github.com/Icinga/docker-icingaweb2[Icinga Web 2 - Docker image]
* https://icinga.com/docs/icinga-db-web/latest/doc/03-Configuration/[Icinga DB Web: Configuration]

== Code of Conduct

Please refer to the project's link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.adoc[Code of Conduct].

== License

This repository is licensed under the https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html[GPLv3].
Please refer to the bundled link:LICENSE.adoc[license].

== Copyright

© 2023 Jordan Williams

== Authors

mailto:{email}[{author}]

Commit message:

Restrict permissions on sensitive files

README.adoc, after:

= Icinga Config
Jordan Williams <jordan@jwillikers.com>
:experimental:
:icons: font
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:Icinga: https://icinga.com/[Icinga]

My configuration for the {Icinga} monitoring tool.

// todo http://nagios.manubulon.com/index_snmp.html

== Usage

This repository contains the configuration files for {Icinga}.
The configuration is meant to be used with the containers from the https://github.com/jwillikers/home-lab-helm[Home Lab Helm] repository.

. Create a `Projects` directory in the current user's home directory.
+
[,sh]
----
mkdir --parents ~/Projects
----

. Clone this repository under `~/Projects`.
+
[,sh]
----
git -C ~/Projects clone git@github.com:jwillikers/icinga-config.git
----

. For each template file in the `etc/icinga2/constants.d` directory, copy it to the same directory without the `.template` extension.
+
Bash::
+
[,sh]
----
for host_template in etc/icinga2/constants.d/*.conf.template; do cp --no-clobber -- "$host_template" etc/icinga2/constants.d/$(basename -- "$host_template" ".template"); done
----

fish::
+
[,sh]
----
for host_template in etc/icinga2/constants.d/*.conf.template; cp --no-clobber -- "$host_template" etc/icinga2/constants.d/(basename -- "$host_template" ".template"); end
----

Nushell::
+
[,sh]
----
for host_template in (glob "etc/icinga2/constants.d/*.conf.template") { cp --no-clobber $host_template $"($host_template | path parse | reject extension | path join)" }
----

. Fill in any missing credentials in the files in the `constants.d` directory, such as SNMPv3 authentication and encryption keys.

.. Generate the `IcingaDbWebApiPassword` constant with the following command.
+
[,sh]
----
echo "const IcingaDbWebApiPassword = \"$(openssl rand -base64 30)\"" > etc/icinga2/constants.d/icingadb-web-api-user-password.conf
----

.. Use the following command to create the `TicketSalt` variable.
+
[,sh]
----
echo "const TicketSalt = \"$(openssl rand -base64 30)\"" > etc/icinga2/constants.d/ticket-salt.conf
----

. Make sure that the sensitive files are not world readable.
+
[,sh]
----
chmod 0640 etc/icinga2/constants.d/{*-credentials.conf,*-password.conf,ticket-salt.conf}
----

. Then mount the provided `etc/` directory inside the Icinga2 server container at `/data/etc`.

=== Features

To enable a feature, create a relative symlink in the `features-enabled` subdirectory that points to the feature configuration file in the `features-available` subdirectory.
The following command demonstrates this by enabling the `icingadb` feature.

[,sh]
----
ln --relative --symbolic etc/icinga2/features-available/icingadb.conf etc/icinga2/features-enabled/icingadb.conf
----

== Validate

Use the following Podman command to validate the Icinga configuration.

[,sh]
----
podman run \
  --env ICINGA_MASTER=1 \
  --hostname icinga.jwillikers.io \
  --interactive \
  --rm \
  --tty \
  --volume icinga-data:/data:Z \
  --volume ~/Projects/icinga-config/etc/icinga2:/data/etc/icinga2:ro,Z \
  docker.io/icinga/icinga2:latest \
  icinga2 daemon --validate
----

== Tips & Tricks

List Available Network Interfaces::
+
[,sh]
----
podman run \
  --interactive \
  --entrypoint [] \
  --rm \
  --tty \
  quay.io/jwillikers/icinga-manubulon:latest \
    /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_interfaces -j MD5 --user 'username' -J 'authPassphrase' -h 10.1.0.5
----

Convert MIB to OID::
+
[,sh]
----
snmptranslate -On NET-SNMP-EXTEND-MIB::nsExtendOutput1Line.\"getenforce\"
.1.3.6.1.4.1.8072.1.3.2.3.1.1.10.103.101.116.101.110.102.111.114.99.101
----

== References

* https://icinga.com/docs/icinga-2/latest/doc/04-configuration/[Icinga 2 Documentation: Configuration]
* https://github.com/Icinga/docker-icinga2[Icinga 2 - Docker image]
* https://github.com/Icinga/docker-icingaweb2[Icinga Web 2 - Docker image]
* https://icinga.com/docs/icinga-db-web/latest/doc/03-Configuration/[Icinga DB Web: Configuration]

== Code of Conduct

Please refer to the project's link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.adoc[Code of Conduct].

== License

This repository is licensed under the https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html[GPLv3].
Please refer to the bundled link:LICENSE.adoc[license].

== Copyright

© 2023 Jordan Williams

== Authors

mailto:{email}[{author}]
